RS 2:1
Definitions
https://www.legis.la.gov/legis/Law.aspx?d=81829

TITLE 2
AERONAUTICS
CHAPTER 1.  REGULATION OF AERONAUTICS
TITLE 2
AERONAUTICSCHAPTER 1.  REGULATION OF AERONAUTICS
§1.  Definitions
For the purposes of this Title, the following definitions shall apply:
(1)  "Abandoned aircraft" means any aircraft which has been left on any property for
a period of more than ninety days without the consent of the owner or operator of the
property.
(2)  "Aeronautics" means the act or practice of the art and science of transportation
by aircraft, and operations, construction, repair, or maintenance of aircraft, airports, landing
fields, landing strips, air navigation facilities, or air instruction.
(3)  "Aircraft" means any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used, or
designed for navigation of, or flight in, the air.
(4)  "Aircraft dealer" means any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
or exchanging aircraft or, for compensation, offering to assist another person with the
purchase, sale, or exchange of an aircraft.
(5)  Repealed by Acts 2008, No. 326, §1.
(6)  "Airman" means any person, including the one in command, and any pilot,
mechanic or member of the crew, who engages in the navigation of aircraft while under way,
and any person who is in charge of the inspection, overhauling or repair of aircraft, and any
individual who served in the capacity of aircraft dispatcher or air traffic control tower
operator.
(7)  "Air navigation" means the operation or navigation of aircraft in the airspace over
the lands and waters of the state of Louisiana.
(8)  "Air navigation facility" means any facility, other than facilities owned or
operated by the United States, used, or available or designed for use, in aid of air navigation,
including any structures, mechanisms, lights, beacons, markers, communicating systems, or
other facilities used or useful as an aid, or constituting an advantage or convenience, to the
safe taking off, navigation, and landing of aircraft, or the safe and efficient operation or
maintenance of an airport.
(8.1)  "Air operation area" means certain areas of an airport limited to runways,
taxiways, and aprons.
(9)  "Airport" means any area of land or water, except a restricted landing area, which
is designed for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, whether or not facilities are provided for
the sheltering, servicing, or repairing of aircraft or for receiving or discharging passengers
or cargo; all appurtenant areas used or suitable for airport buildings or other airport facilities;
and all appurtenant rights of way including easements through or other interests in air space
over land or water and other protection privileges, the acquisition or control of which is
necessary to insure safe approaches to the landing areas and efficient operation thereof.
(10)  "Airport hazard" means any structure, object of natural growth, or use of land,
which obstructs the air space required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at any
airport or restricted landing area or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off.
(11)  "Air instruction" means the imparting of aeronautical information in any air
school, flying club, or by any aviation instructor.
(12)  "Air school" means any person engaged in giving instruction or offering to give
instruction in aeronautics either in flying or in ground subjects, or both, for or without hire
or reward, and advertising, representing, or holding himself or itself out as giving or offering
to give such instruction.
(13)  "Aviation instructor" means any individual engaged in giving instruction, or
offering to give instruction, in aeronautics, either in flying or ground subjects, or both, for
or without hire or reward, without advertising such occupation, without calling his facilities
an "air school" or anything equivalent thereto, or without employing or using other
instructors.
(14)  "Civil aircraft" means any aircraft other than a public aircraft.
(15)  "Department" or "Department of Public Works" means the Department of
Transportation and Development except where the Department of Public Safety and
Corrections is specified.
(16)  "Director" means the Assistant Secretary, Office of Aviation, Louisiana
Department of Transportation and Development.
(17)  "Fixed-base operator" or "FBO" means an individual or a firm operating at an
airport and providing general aircraft or air cargo services including, but not limited to
maintenance, storage, repair, and ground and flight instructions.
(18)  "Flying club" means any person, other than an individual, who, neither for profit
nor reward, owns, leases, or uses one or more aircraft for the purpose of instruction, pleasure,
or both.
(19)  "Lighter-than-air aircraft" means an aircraft which can rise and remain
suspended by using contained gas with a molecular weight less than the molecular weight
of the air displaced by the gas.
(20)  "Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association, or body politic; and includes any trustee, receiver,
assignee, or other similar representative thereof.
(21)  "Political subdivision" means any parish, city, town, village, city and parish,
public corporation, district, or other political entity or public corporation of this state.
(22)  "Public aircraft" means any aircraft used exclusively in the service of any
government or of any political subdivision thereof, including the government of any state,
territory, or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, but not including
any government-owned aircraft engaged in carrying persons or property for commercial
purposes.
(23)  "Restricted landing area" means any area of land, water, or both, which is used
or is made available for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, the use of which shall, except in
case of emergency, be only as provided from time to time by the department.
(24)  "Sponsor" means any state agency, city, town, parish, airport authority, or other
political subdivision which owns, leases, or controls any airport, landing field, landing strip,
seaplane base, helipad, or aid to air navigation.
(25)  "Structure" means any object constructed or installed by man, including but
without limitation buildings, towers, smokestacks, and overhead transmission lines.
(26)  "Through-the-fence operation" means the accessing of air operation area airport
facilities from off-airport property even when the perimeter fence is imaginary.
(27)  "Tree" means any object of natural growth.
Amended by Acts 1978, No. 131, §1, eff. June 23, 1978; Acts 1985, No. 889, §1;
Acts 1998, 1st Ex. Sess., No. 28, §1, eff. April 24, 1998; Acts 1999, No. 836, §1; Acts 2008,
No. 326, §1.
